Now you know major types of DBs.
How many user DB?
Here are some tips.
Look at the possible structure of your data.
Is it clearly relational such as transactional data,
or can it be mapped to key-value pairs such as comments or ratings?
What is the size of data we are talking about?
Is it big data or regular data?
What are the latency requirements.
Is it used for reporting where data can be made available in minutes or hours,
or is it needed for real-time use cases,
such as upsell or cross-sell?
What are the core requirements of this DB?
Are the operations read-heavy or write-heavy,
or these DBs will be needed for search operations?
Now let's look at some common scenarios in
which you will use DBs we discussed in last section.
SQL DBs; they're most mature and stable category of DBs.
They're best suited to the needs when security is the most important requirement.
They were best for structured data.
Common use case will be financial applications or defense applications.
Document-oriented DBs; these are
schema-free and can store semi-structured and unstructured data.
Consider a content management system,
it might have videos, pictures, and documents.
Document-oriented DBs are best suited for such use cases.
Columnar DB; they have eventual consistency.
In simple words what it means,
it might get updated super fast,
but it takes some time to return
the last updated result or write are not reflected super-fast in reads,
but eventually they do.
They're best suited when queries are needed to be run on data columns.
A very common example will be data science,
data modeling wherein you fetch features of data as and when you need them,
and don't want all the features of a data point return for your analysis.
Key-value DBs; these are best suited for data that can be
stored as key value and as unstructured example,
when you want to store customer reviews.
As the name suggests,
if the data is graph-like and you need to run analysis on connections, nearest neighbors.
Basically when focus is on relationships,
graph DBs are best.
Social networks find graph DBs very useful.